# GartnerInsight

Microservices are independent from all other services in the sense that it is not dependent on other services. Everything within a unit works on a new function that is able to pump out new resources and updates without causing interferences. It is important to note that each of these units work on individual features. It will never work on multiple features. A miniservice will share databases with other applications and deplot multiple features. Miniservices can increase productivity and improve maintainability when refactoring monolithic systems. While not the best compared to microservices, it is much more effective than a macroservice. A macroservice is a monolithic application which means that everything is coupled together. With each change, you will need to be thoughtful of testing other features since there may be certain interferences that will require changes. Everything is shared on a large database unlike micro and mini services. Microservices contains benefits such as autonomy since teams are able to work without being restrained and restricted to other teams. It also includes technical flexibility since teams can use a wide variety of technology and languages when developing a feature. It also includes risk reduction as each unit is independent from each other will allow services to not fail on such a large scale. Microservices also do have a downside as if they are not applied properly, there can be poor performances. Since microservices are not similar to other ways systems are maintained, there needs to be advanced planning and architectual design. Microservices can also be pricey since most organizations can be costly and cause disruptions. Businesses need to weigh out the pros and cons of their current service and microservices since there may be a large downside on productivity if they deploy a new service. I personally think that miniservices are the easiest since microservices are realtively early to apply due to it being new. Macroservices are monolithic and are difficult to maintain since everything is intertwined. As of now, it seems as though miniservices is in the middle that allows you to scale down on services and not make it too complex.
